now the Lord said to Moses going to
Pharaoh for I have hardened his heart
and the hearts of his servants that I
may show these signs of mine before him
and that you may tell in the hearing of
your son and your son's son
the mighty things I have done in Egypt
and my signs which I have done among
them that you may know that I am the
Lord
so Moses and Aaron came into Pharaoh and
said to him thus says the Lord God of
the Hebrews how long will you refuse to
humble yourself before me let my people
go that they may serve me or else if you
refuse to let my people go
behold tomorrow I will bring locusts
into your territory and they shall cover
the face of the earth so that no one
will be able to see the earth and they
shall eat the residue of what is left
which remains to you from the hail and
they shall eat every tree which grows up
for you out of the field they shall fill
your houses the houses of all your
servants and the houses of all the
Egyptians which neither your fathers nor
your father's fathers had seen since the
day that they were on the earth to this
day
and he turned and went out from Pharaoh
then Pharaoh seven said to him how long
shall this man be a snare to us let the
men go that they may serve the Lord
their God do you not yet know that Egypt
is destroyed so Moses and Aaron were
brought again to fetter
go serve the Lord your God who are the
ones that are going we will go with our
young and our old with our sons and our
daughters with our flocks and our herds
we will go for we must hold a feast to
the Lord the Lord had better be with you
when I let you and your little ones go
beware for evil is ahead of you
not so go now you who are men and serve
the Lord for that is what you desired
and they were driven out from Pharaoh's
presence then the Lord said to Moses
stretch out your hand over the land of
Egypt for the locusts that they may come
upon the land of Egypt and eat every
herb of the land all that the hail has
left so Moses stretched out his rod over
the land of Egypt
and the Lord brought an east wind on the
land all that day and all that night
when it was morning the east wind
brought the locusts and the locusts went
up over all the land of Egypt and rested
on all the territory of Egypt they were
very severe previously there had been no
such locusts of rain nor shall there be
such after them so they covered the face
of the whole earth so that the land was
darkened and they ate every herb of the
land and all the fruit of the trees
which the hail had left so they remain
nothing green on the trees or on the
plants of the field throughout all the
land of Egypt and Pharaoh called for
Moses and Aaron in haste I have sinned
against the Lord your God and against
you now therefore please forgive my sin
only this once and entreat the Lord your
God that he may take away for me this
death only so he went out from Pharaoh
and entreated the Lord and the Lord
turned a very strong westerly which took
the locusts away and blew him into the
Red Sea
there remained not one locust in all the
territory of Egypt of the Lord hardened
Pharaoh's heart and he did not let the
children of Israel go then the Lord said
to Moses stretch out your hand toward
heaven that there may be darkness over
the land of Egypt darkness which may
even be felt so Moses stretched out his
hand toward heaven and there was thick
darkness in all the land of Egypt three
days they did not see one another nor
did anyone rise from his place for three
days but all the children of Israel had
light in their dwellings then Pharaoh
called to Moses God serve the Lord only
let your flocks and your herds be cut
back let your little ones also go with
you but Moses said
you must also give us sacrifices and
burnt offerings that we may sacrifice to
the Lord our God our livestock also
shall go with us
not a hoof shall be left behind for we
must take some of them to serve the Lord
our God and even we do not know with
what we must serve the Lord until we
arrive there but the Lord hardened
Pharaoh's heart and he would not let
them go then Pharaoh said to him get
away from me take heed to yourself and
see my face no more or in the day you
see my face you shall die you have
spoken well I will never see your face
again